What is library anxiety?
According to Washington State University,
Library anxiety is defined as
"Fear of both the library space,
which can be seen as overwhelming and confusing, and of the process
of using the library to find materials."
So where does it come from?
There are a lot of things that can cause library anxiety in a student or a library patron
Some of these can include: Social fears
Or generalized anxiety
Misplaced expectations about what you should know,
Intimidation about the billions of sources out there,
Or simply, unfamiliarity with the library environment
whether for your specific library, or in general.
Unfortunately, because everyone is unique in their
situations and concerns, There is
no immediate cure-all for these anxieties
but there are some things you can keep in mind if they apply to you.
Or, if you are a librarian trying to combat
library anxiety in your patrons or students,
These tips are for you, too.
Firstly, library anxiety is extremely common
especially in academic libraries
so, you are not alone in feeling this way if you do.
The average library user is not a library professional,
Therefore, you should never feel like you need to figure
it out alone, and no one expects you to!
For librarians, try finding ways to ensure that
users understand that you are there to help them
and that there are no stupid questions.
If you're worried about asking in person,
consider using the library's digital resources
Or scheduling one-on-one assistance if your library offers it
For librarians, make sure that if you offer a service
like this, that it is advertised prominently within the
library, on the academic campus, or on a website
so patrons can see it.
Again, there is no swift solution for library anxiety,
but being aware of its existence is a huge step forward
for any working librarian-user relationship
Let's keep finding ways to make the research experience
the best that it can be!